# Live #233 --> [Typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com/)

Typer is a library which helps to create CLI applications, it uses Rich to get 
prettier prints and Shanningam to know some information about the environment.

Tagging funtions parameters helps Typer to build a better --help.

There are numerous articles available on designing and developing more effective command-line interface (CLI) applications. It seems that creating a robust application using this approach is highly recommended.

In a typical function, when default values are assigned to certain parameters, they are treated as flag arguments when the application is used. This behavior may be intentional from the developer's perspective. However, if it is not the intended behavior, we can utilize the Argument class from Typer to explicitly declare the function as follows:

```Python
from typer import Argument, run

def hello(
    name: str = Argument(...),
    email: str = Argument(...),
    password: str = Argument("DeFaUlT PaSs")
):
    pass
```

In this scenario, Typer recognizes that even though the password parameter still has a default value, it remains an argument rather than a flag.

- **Argument(...)** -> This syntax with ellipsis (...) indicates that the argument is required, meaning it must be provided when running the command. Without a default value or any additional configuration, the argument is mandatory.
- **Argument("value")** -> When providing a string value as an argument, it represents the default value for that argument. If no value is provided when running the command, this default value will be used.
- **Argument(function)** -> In this case, the argument is assigned a default value generated by a function. The function will be executed at runtime to determine the default value for the argument. It allows for dynamic default values based on logic or calculations.
- **Argument(..., help="Help message")** -> By including the help parameter, you can provide a help message for the argument. This message typically explains the purpose or usage of the argument and is displayed when users request help or usage information for the command.
- **Argument(..., metavar="Customizable exhibition")** -> The metavar parameter allows you to customize the displayed name of the argument in help messages or usage documentation. It provides a more descriptive or meaningful representation of the argument in the context of your application.
- **Argument(..., envvar="ENV_VAR")** -> This configuration associates the argument with an environment variable. The argument will take its default value from the specified environment variable if no value is explicitly provided when running the command. This enables flexibility by allowing users to customize the behavior through environment variables.

These different configurations help you define and customize arguments in Typer, providing flexibility and clarity in how the command-line interface operates and how users interact with it.
